in 1969
man first walked on the moon and we saw
these images of course they needed to be
beamed
to the earth from the moon but at that
time
the united states was not facing the
moon
so what happened well this telescope
collected the signal
it is called the park's radio telescope
and it's in new south wales australia
and here's me beside it a few weeks ago
the telescope is huge but small by the
standards of some of the larger
telescopes around today
affectionately in australia it is known
as
the dish in part because of this movie
which was made in the year 2000
it's worth watching it's an australian
comedy classic by some of their most
prominent comedians
and it's broadly historically accurate
what is even less known than the fact
this dish was used to collect those
signals coming from the moon
was that seven years earlier just after
it was constructed
the dish found that a certain radio
source which had already been designated
3c273 it was pinpointed by the park's
radio telescope dish
when the moon passed in front of the
source this was in 1962
and allowed the park's astronomers to
inform other astronomers at mount
palomar
to use their 200-inch telescope to look
for an optical counterpart
this happens a lot in astronomy people
with radio telescopes notice something
strange using radio waves
and they communicate with the people who
operate other kinds of telescope
the ones you think of when you think
telescope like this
or this and then the optical astronomers
are able to more closely pinpoint the
object
the thing about radio waves is they have
long wavelengths and long wavelengths
means low resolution
which also means it's harder to tell
exactly on the sky
where the signal is coming from this is
why that moon occulation as we call it
oculation of the object behind the moon
was needed that process allows you to
pinpoint the position of the radio
object a little more precisely if you
notice the radio waves disappear just as
the moon passes a certain region of the
sky
then you can more precisely determine
where in the sky those radio waves are
coming from
and that then helps astronomers who use
the optical telescopes to move their
telescopes to exactly where they need to
be
to see the object in the regular
wavelengths that
human vision uses anyways when they did
this with the 3c273 object
they saw a faint star and a wispy cloud
of material near the object
the spectra was analyzed by astronomer
martine
schmidt and his collaborators but it was
schmidt who first suggested this object
had a
large redshift but before we get to him
let's go back to parks in 1972.
when the moon was passing in front of
the object in 1962
the radio telescope had to be pointed
close to the horizon
the director of the telescope uh john
bolton was worried about being able to
see the object in the radio band and so
dug a trench around the telescope
so the dish could dip below ground level
not only that but he asked for local
radio stations to be switched off during
the observations
this was the same john bolton who 13
years earlier in 1949
suggested that some radio sources
detected in the sky
could be from outside the galaxy quite
the claim at the time
no doubt in part this was the motivation
for going to some quite extraordinary
lengths to ensure the radio telescope in
australia would not miss this
opportunity to further constrain
some properties of this radio object
that the moon was passing in front of
by the way sam neil's character in the
movie the dish
is based on john bolton in 1960 and 61
there were already astronomers reporting
the existence of so-called
radio stars these were stars that were
quite unusual in putting out a lot of
radio waves
but also they had unusual spectra
this is curious because of course later
we would learn they were indeed
from outside the galaxy but who cares
that they called them
radio stars well the significance for
let's say the philosophy of
science is that stars need to be within
about 120
000 light years of where we are in fact
that is the diameter of the milky way
galaxy
but quasars are typically more than 10
billion light years away some are
much more than this which means
astronomers just a few decades ago
were underestimating their distance by a
factor of more than
a hundred and fifty thousand we should
keep this sort of thing in mind
the history of science is a history of
correcting some rather large errors in
our initial guesses
even in our quantitative sciences also
and this is key the evidence was there
in the spectra in these early
observations
namely the astronomers had the spectra
the astronomers could easily
if they had the right knowledge have
interpreted the spectra they saw
as being redshifted and some later on
did indeed claim
as i'll come to cern that they did
interpret it this way
but were unwilling to go out on a limb
for fear of ridicule
an issue of sky and telescope in 1961
that's the magazine for astronomers the
popular magazine
even reported that there is a remote
possibility
that one of these objects not 3c273 but
3c48
may be a distant galaxy of stars but
there is general agreement among the
astronomers concerned
that it is a relatively nearby star with
most peculiar properties
now before i get to the nature of and
the physics of
quasars i'd like to talk a little bit
more about the history namely
who could be credited with actually
discovering quasars
as we'll see the answer to that question
is not very simple
and for all intents and purposes in
science it's entirely unimportant as
well
but some of us myself included like to
trace the history of science just to see
what kind of fits and starts we've had
along the way to the knowledge that
we've got now
what kind of errors and missteps have
been made in the past is it possible
that we won't make that error in the
future
who knows probably not but it might at
least
broaden our way of thinking about
certain areas of science in physics for
example where we
rule out certain observations as not
possibly being able to indicate
what in fact they do indicate anyways in
terms of the history of course
just as in history anywhere else you can
emphasize and de-emphasize certain
things and that can color what you think
is the answer to a simple question a
seemingly simple question like
who discovered the first quasar now in
this case
we have the astronomer john bolton who
suggested that some objects might be
outside the galaxy
namely these quasars does he deserve the
credit or is it martin schmidt who first
looked at the spectra
from 3c273 and determined that it had a
very large redshift which is suggestive
of the fact that it
might be outside of the galaxy or was it
hongi chu
of nasa's goddard institute for space
studies who coined the term quasar
in a may 1964 article for physics today
in biology isn't that how things work if
you name something then you get the
credit for having discovered it
now i tend to think it might have been
both bolton
who seemed to be convinced the object
was outside of the galaxy and therefore
went to these
extraordinary lengths with his radio
telescope in australia
to gather the evidence that was needed
which then led schmidt to being able to
have the spectra and interpret the
spectra as in fact having a higher
redshift which was the
clincher for how far away this object
was and later on how bright it was
but even all of this story is a little
bit dubious because there are many
others who contributed to the work of
both
bolton and schmidt and lots of ideas
were being thrown around apparently in
late night discussions and in schmidt's
case certainly it's something like a
party of astronomers where shots of
alcohol are being consumed late at night
so who knows what was said
and where the conjectures came from
whatever the case there is a
history of the discovery of quasars a
paper
by k.i kiliman from the national radio
astronomy observatory in charlottesville
which runs for 14 pages
and then an additional three pages which
is a list
of all the references that are used so
it's a comprehensive account
and if you're interested in more of this
of course i've put the link to that
paper in the description
now a part of this history that is
interesting is that quasars seem to have
absolutely been discovered in
1963 by who exactly is a matter of
debate
but in 1963 four very important
papers scientific papers were published
that time
all converging on the nature of quasars
and in the history of quasars document
that i was talking about there's a
paragraph about this period
and it's worth reading verbatim because
well it's interesting to me
and it says and i'll quote the four now
classic papers by hazard et al
1963 schmidt 1963 oaky 1963
and greenstein and matthews 1963 were
published as consecutive papers
in the march 16 1963 issue of nature
whether by error or intentionally
hazard's name appeared in nature with
the csiro radio physics laboratory
affiliation
although hazard was affiliated with the
university of sydney relations between
the university of sydney and the
radiophysics laboratory
were at the time already strained and
this incident
further exacerbated the existing
tensions hazard had been invited by john
bolton
taffy bowen and joe porzi to use the
park's telescope
to observe the upcoming occultation as a
non-staff member
hazard was not familiar with the
operation of the telescope nor the
receivers
and so following standard practice for
non-radiophysics observers
john simmons and brian mckee were added
to the observing team to provide
telescope and receiver support
respectively bolt in 1990
characteristically bolton declined to
put his name on the paper
claiming that he was just doing his job
as director
haynes and haynes 1993 attribute the
error
to an unintentional mistake on the part
of the journal
due to the change from a letter format
has submitted
to an article format as published
although the manuscript submitted by the
radiophysics publications office
has the word delete handwritten next to
hazards university of sydney
address end quote now the csiro
is australia's commonwealth science and
industry research organization it is our
premier
government-funded research body for
science and so the fact that that
institution
was having an argument or didn't like
the university of sydney at the time
is a matter of historical interest
whatever the case
the message here is that despite
sociological effects the truth wins out
errors do indeed get corrected in
science whatever the politics is
that is not the main driver of science
or of discoveries in science
the science makes its way regardless and
all the curney and sociological musings
have very little impact ultimately upon
what we do discover
it may have an effect on the history of
science and who gets credit
but the fact is quasars are there and we
know about them
despite sydney university fighting with
the government science agency
and there apparently being some jealousy
around bolton or some such
science makes progress anyway objective
progress
this is a point david deutsch makes in
his critique of
kuhn in the fabric of reality sociology
is not a primary driver
of scientific discoveries not at all
error
correction is the identification of
problems are and the creation of their
solutions
are as this example of quasars shows
so that's the history except for one
more remark these discoveries i will
talk about
were all really sparked in england and
australia
and one may well ask why well it seems
to be a combination of two things first
the english had broadly speaking the
best radio technology
because this was just after world war ii
and it was military technology that was
first used or a form of military
technology
that was first used to detect objects
from the sky
as a result they were able to begin
doing radio astronomy better and earlier
than most others
although even before this there was karl
jansky who was an american astronomer
after which the unit the jansky
is named the jansky unit karl jansky is
probably
the most famous radio astronomer because
it was one of the first and the janski
is roughly speaking
a unit of radio wave intensity
so how strong the signal is you measure
it
in janski's and janski was
interested in pointing radio telescopes
or his radio telescope
at the milky way and realized that it's
putting out the center of the milky way
as putting out
radio waves anyway this explains why
england
was good at radio astronomy they had
lots of the early military technology
but why was australia so good australia
is so good because
the place is empty it is quiet if you
want to do astronomy you need somewhere
away from noise
many people think of light pollution
when you're looking at the sky but
there's also of course
radio pollution so if there are too many
radio stations or if there are otherwise
any other sources of radiation around
you
then this is going to interfere with the
radio signal so trying to stick a radio
telescope a really good radio telescope
somewhere near los angeles or london is
much harder to do
than to go way out in the middle of
australia somewhere
and in fact we're building some of the
largest radio telescopes in the world
here in western australia at the moment
as well
and parks is quite a long way the parks
radio telescope is quite a long way
from any built-up area but let's now
move on to some more of the science
and all of this is essentially motivated
by remarks i made in my
nexus video where i said our
understanding of what a quasar really is
is as i described a black hole
consuming stars and as a consequence
the accretion disk which is the disk of
material that is falling into the black
hole
is rotating so quickly that it creates
magnetic fields the reason it creates
magnetic fields is because
this gas that is spiraling into the
black hole
is ionized ionized gas ionized gas
means you have an electrical current of
a kind
an ion is a charged particle so lots of
them moving together constitute an
electric current
and all the way back in the 1800s we had
people like michael faraday
explaining how moving charges
like electrons or in this case ions can
generate magnetic fields
these magnetic fields that are generated
cause the production
of jets of material that head in all
directions but in
in our case towards the earth which we
can see which we can detect so in that
nexus video
i presume to explain what we know of
quasars in an approximately
two minute clip of course that would be
a very crude low resolution explanation
and so in part what i said was the jets
head in all directions but in our case
towards the earth now there's ambiguity
in this this is a kind of sloppy way of
explaining what's going on
what i meant there my intention was that
we are not privileged
if you were to take a thousand quasars
at random
from a god's eye view of the universe
you would notice the
jets oriented in all possible directions
some
tiny portion of them are pointed right
towards the earth and these are
the ones that we can see we are in the
beam so to speak
now this is only partially correct and
there's an important way in which it's
incorrect
that the overwhelming majority of
quasars are not ones where we're
directly in the beam
and as we'll come to these in fact have
a different name
we can still call them quasars for
reasons that i'll come to
but generally they get the name blazars
that's where we are head-on into the
beam
but in fact the mechanism whereby we can
see quasars
is generally somewhat more complicated
than this
and i'll come to this but anyway this is
the motivation for today's video
and i'm using a number of sources for
this not least of which is
this book which is titled an
introduction to modern astrophysics by
carolyn ostley
affectionately called bob by the people
that i went to university with
bob standing for big orange book it runs
for
something close to 1 300 and something
pages
and the frustrating thing for us as
students i recall was a running joke of
sorts
which was that every time we were
expected to get a new text
even at the graduate level it was titled
something like
an introduction to something or other
and so that's an introduction to
modern astrophysics it didn't matter how
many years we studied or how senior we
became
we were always just at the introductory
level and we always wondered
when were we going to ever move beyond
an introduction to presumably after we
did a phd
which i never did and incidentally you
can get
texts called advanced astrophysics a
well-known one
is this one neb durex advanced attra
physics
which is basically just a lot more
physics than it is astronomy but the
content isn't necessarily any more
complicated than the
one that i've got here in fact i find
the explanations in the one that i have
far better than the ones that are in
this uh advanced astrophysics one
i think in a lot of cases these titles
come down to marketing more than
anything else
what our best theories now tell us lots
of galaxies are what are known as
active galaxies which just means
galaxies that are brighter than normal
if you observe them using radio
telescopes
among the first of these noticed were
noticed by an astronomer
carl safit and they are called safer
galaxies or seafood galaxies even to
this
day some of these galaxies also emit a
lot of x-rays
seafoots along with quasars are all now
classed as
agns which is the acronym for active
galactic nuclei
because we know they are all part of the
same kind of thing
basically the nuclei or the center of
the galaxies
are the active parts the energetic parts
the particularly bright parts
that are sending out the radiation that
we can then detect
an interesting thing here is the
taxonomy of these objects
because they were not all originally
known to be the same
but now we do kind of know that they are
the same thing the classic
kind of agn is pretty much encapsulated
by the first one that was discovered
cygnus a shown here it's moving at about
600 kilometers a second away from us
that's quite fast
and we've calculated its luminosity to
be
4.8 times 10 to the power of 37
watts in the radio band alone
this is several million times brighter
than a normal galaxy
and is about three times more energy
than the milky way puts out
across all of its wavelengths which is
absolutely astonishing because well
radio waves are the least energetic of
all of the wavelengths of
electromagnetic radiation
now at the center of this image of
cygnus a that
rather little dot is a whole galaxy it's
a galaxy
according to bob the big orange book a
cd galaxy which is a giant elliptical
galaxy
or it could be a type of e galaxy if i
go looking on the internet at other
sources
it depends on who i consult about this
in any case
it's huge which means those lobes are
even
more stupendously large and it is those
lobes of gas that are illuminated by the
jet
and what makes the galaxy so bright
now my textbook here says that quasar's
radio emission may come from
either radiolobes or from the central
source in its core
quasars are so far away that in optical
images
most appear as overwhelmingly bright
star-like nuclei
surrounded by faint fuzzy halos in some
cases
a fuzzy halo can be resolved into a
faint parent galaxy
to be visible from such great distances
quasars must be
exceptionally powerful now just a note
on the terminology quasar
today the term quasar has come to be
used almost universally for both
things that put out a lot of radio waves
called
qsrs which is quasi stellar
radio sources and much quieter qsos
which are quasi stellar objects and so
this
this a bit of this bit of terminology is
rather
confusing as a result it's common to
encounter the descriptions
radio loud quasars and radio quiet
quasars
however it is sometimes the case that
qso is used as an abbreviation
for quasar the terminology as i said can
be confusing in the literature
and indeed it's contradictory to say
that a particular quasar
is radio quiet is equivalent to saying
that we are discussing
radio quiet quasi-stellar radio sources
based on the original definition of what
a quasar is
and so as time went on after this first
one was discovered
many others were discovered that were
similar but which had important
differences
and they all were extremely bright
and aside from the radio quiet ones
putting a lot of energy in the radio
part of the spectrum they had high
redshifts but
they could be seen like stars which is
rather unusual because if they're on the
other side of the universe
they must be putting out a heck of a lot
of energy
and no one could really figure out what
the source of this energy was
after all if they were like a star that
would mean they're putting out the
energy in all directions
evenly which is a mystery because no
such physical process would have enabled
them to put out quite so much energy
in such a small volume of space they
were putting out
more energy than many many galaxies
and yet they appeared to be like a star
could they have been a star that seemed
to be
physically impossible whatever the case
people started to develop a
started to develop a taxonomy a way of
naming these things
and so we have these kinds here and this
table here is
from the textbook that i use so we've
got seaford galaxies we've got
quasars radio galaxies blazars blazars
are these things where
as we will see the jet that illuminates
the lobes
is pointed directly at us at least for a
short time
now what happened much later
was the creative theory that in fact all
of these objects
were essentially the same kind of thing
they were a
black hole with an accretion disk and
the accretion disk
caused the production because it was
spinning so rapidly
in the way that i described in that
other episode that i did
the accreted material spinning so
rapidly
that it ionizes the gas and this ionized
gas
constitutes an electric current and the
electric current generates a magnetic
field and the magnetic field
can cause synchrotron radiation the
synchrotron radiation rather like the
kind of radiation that comes out of a
particle accelerator
generates these jets of material and the
jets of material go streaming out at
right angles from the disk of material
eventually that jet of material
encounters the
interstellar medium so other bits of gas
very diffuse
gas but bits of gas that are out there
and slow down
and eventually collect as huge clouds of
gas and so
where did these huge lobes come from
well that's just the material coming out
of the center
via those jets and so then the jet is
colliding in with remnants of itself and
those remnants are being illuminated by
the new stuff that's colliding into it
and that causes
the extremely bright light that is
coming from
these things now the way in which we say
this is a unified model is that
all of them are exactly the same thing
the difference is the major difference
is the orientation between
our vantage point here on earth and the
object
so if the object is side on to us we
might call it a quasar
but if it if we're in the beam we're a
blazer and various other factors like
the accretion rate you know how quickly
the black hole the center is consuming
stars
has an effect on whether or not it's
called a seafood galaxy
a radio galaxy a quasar or a blazar
but as the text has already said the
light that is coming from the quasar in
most cases is indeed coming from the
brightness of the lobes
in some cases it's also from the central
disk as well
and in some cases it's from us being the
direct path
of the jet and the jet might itself be
moving around
it might be processing in a certain
sense and so that is why
a lot of these blazars are particularly
variable in their brightness sometimes
we're in the path of the jet and
sometimes we're not as the jet moves
backwards and forwards
such that we can either see it very
clearly and brightly
or not now it's worth going over a
little bit more detail about
how these jets are generated so the
generation of jets according to
my text which says quote the radio lobes
are produced by jets of charged
particles ejected from the central
nucleus of the active galactic nuclei
at relativistic speeds these particles
are accelerated away from the nucleus in
two opposite directions
powered by the energy of accretion and
or
by the extraction of rotational kinetic
energy from the black hole
the jet must be electrically neutral
overall but it is not clear whether the
ejected material consists of electrons
and ions
or an electron positron plasma the
latter being less massive
would be more easily accelerated the
disc's magnetic field is coupled or
frozen in
to this flow of charged particles the
resulting magnetic torques
may remove angular momentum from the
disc which would allow the accreting
material
to move inward through the disc the
incredible narrowness and straightness
of
some jets means that a collimating
process
must be at work very near the central
engine powering the jet
a thick hot accretion disk around the
black hole
could provide natural collimation by
funneling the outflowing particles
because the accreting material retains
some angular momentum as it spirals
inward
through the disk it will tend to pile up
at the smallest orbit that is compatible
with its angular momentum inside this
centrifugal barrier
there may be a relatively empty cavity
that can act as a nozzle
directing the accreting gases outward
along the walls of the cavity
however producing highly relativistic
jets as frequently observed
appear to be diffic appears to be
difficult to accomplish
with this nozzle mechanism now as the
jet of material
travels outwards its energy primarily
resides in the kinetic energy of its
particles
however the jet encounters resistance as
it penetrates the interstellar medium
within the host galaxy and the
intergalactic medium beyond
as a result the material at the head of
the jet is slowed
and a shock front forms there the
accumulation
and deceleration of the particles at the
shock front
causes the directed energy of the jet to
become disordered as the particles
splash back to
form a large lobe in which the energy
may be shared
equally by the kinetic and magnetic
energy the problem of calculating the
motion of a jet through the
intergalactic medium
is so complicated that extensive
numerical simulations are required to
model the process
the motion of the charged particles and
the magnetic fields
within the lobes of radio loud objects
contain an enormous amount of energy
for cygnus a the energy of each lobe is
estimated to be approximately 10 to the
power of 53
to 10 to the power of 54 joules
equivalent
to the energy liberated by 10 to the
power of 7
supernovae okay end quote for the
textbook there
and so this is why david deutch makes
that wonderful quip
in his ted talk about it's a bit
difficult to explain exactly what it
would be
like in one of those jets it would be a
bit like experiencing a supernova
explosion
but at point-blank range and for
millions of years at a time
and so that's where we get it there so a
single jet there
has the energy liberated by 10 to the
power of 7
supernova which is quite remarkable
and so the thing about quasars is they
are luminous
they're really bright this means they
can be seen at distances
much greater than other objects like
stars or regular galaxies
and it's this quality of being so
luminous and so much easier to detect at
large distances
that makes them important probes so we
say in astronomy
of the early universe if a quasar is
observed
at a redshift of 2.0 this means the age
of the universe is only about 3.5
billion years
at the time when we're observing the
quasar or a quarter of what it is now
and of course because the quasars become
more numerous the more distance that you
look
they're a good record of how the
universe is evolving over time
the ones that are closest to us are
behaving in a certain way perhaps
having a redshift or a moving with space
at a certain velocity
and others that are much further away
are moving with a different velocity and
this of course is what led to the
discovery of
dark energy this accelerating expansion
of the universe by looking at these very
distant quads
now today the most distant quasars
that are out there have a redshift of
more than seven according to wikipedia
at the moment the most distant quasar
yet seen lies 29.36 billion light years
away from earth
as it says there these distances are
much larger than the distance light
could travel in the universe's 13.8
billion year history
because space itself has also been
expanding so this one quasar that's
mentioned there it's got a
funky name j1342
0928 it's got a redshift of 7.54
which which is less than a
billion years well less than a billion
years after the big bang so this is
looking back
very close to the origin of the universe
the universe was indeed
much much smaller back then now if you
look up on the internet again
if you look if you google you'll find
that the brightest quasar the apparently
brightest quasar so the apparent
magnitude the apparent brightness
is indeed 37273 which is the one i've
been talking about the first one ever
discovered
and if you know where to look apparently
a medium-sized amateur telescope will be
able to resolve that it'll look just
like a star it'll be
pretty boring to look at in fact but hey
you could say
you're observing a quasar but this is
not
the most powerful quater of course this
is just the one that happens to be
closest to us easiest to see and so
therefore was the first to be discovered
and
any amateur astronomer with a good
enough bit of equipment
can indeed see it the most powerful
queens are known as of 2021
apparently is something that's got a
funky name which i won't uh read out
it's just a long list of letters it
doesn't have a
popular name you can google this of
course
but it's luminosity is 2.66 times 10 to
the power of 41 watts
which is something of the order of 10
000 times more
than the other quasars that i've
mentioned here such as three
and three that first one so it's even
brighter than those ones
and according to one of the
more prestigious uh journals the notices
of the royal astronomical society
the black hole associated with that
quasar
is 34 billion solar masses
these numbers are just astonishing so
the black hole alone is 34 billion times
the mass of the sun and so it's
producing this fast amount of energy
so that's as of today the most powerful
one that we can see
and clicking a few more links i find
that
phil plate who is the bad astronomer
he's written an article
and i'll just take it on face value
where he says that
this new quasar found i think was found
back in 2018
the brightest one the most or rather the
most powerful one the most luminous one
with the 34 billion solar mass black
hole the center
apparently in order to do the math
probably it must be eating
a star a day a star a day not a star a
year
as most other quasars apparently do now
this to me raises questions about
something called
the eddington limit and and this this um
this eddington limit is you know well
it's just a consequence of the laws of
physics
that you can't have more luminosity than
this
given how quickly things can fall into a
black hole under gravity
and then heat up and thus cause the
brightness that you can see but there
could be other physics going on here
that we
aren't aware of of course okay so that's
where i'll
end this episode for today just to point
out i had some
misconceptions in that original nexus
video there
the misconceptions being about how the
light reaches us
from a quasar are we directly in the
beam generally not in some cases we are
but usually we call these things
blazers or something else more exotic
there's black objects as well for what
it's worth
but usually what we're seeing is the
jets of material are in fact
perpendicular
to us they're not necessarily being
pointed straight at us they can be
pointed at some sort of
angle towards us very rarely as i say
directly towards us but in most cases
they're not oriented that way
and instead are going perpendicular to
where we are
and they're then illuminating these big
lobes these big gas clouds and we can
see
the big gas clouds and because they're
so huge that's why
they're so bright so luminous and we can
detect them
here on earth and the process the exotic
processes that are going on there
are producing the radio waves and those
exotic processes are also causing the
illumination of these large lobes which
are then the things that we can
detect here from the other side of the
universe to where it's all going on
and all of this explanation as i like to
link things back
to the way in which knowledge is
constructed and what we've talked about
throughout
topcast is the idea of self-similarity
but over time our understanding of these
quasars
becomes ever better and the models of
these things
in our minds come to more closely
resemble
the actual physics that's going on there
on the other side of the universe that
one structure
resembles the other over time and this
is the story of people
for more on that see my episode called
the nexus
until next time bye-bye
[Music]
you